ICICI Lombard Hush did catch up with the
management which is Gopal Balachandra
chief financial officer. Let's listen
into what he had to say on earnings.
>> So let me first start off by
understanding how the pricing
environment is evolving both in terms of
health as well as motor which is
obviously the two largest segments that
you have. So give us that perspectives
to start off.
>> So good morning to you and good morning
to all your viewers. Uh
>> good morning sir. I think uh uh so let
me again just put this in context. I
think if you look at uh the market
currently is running at a combined ratio
of about 112%. Which is to say that
against 100 rupees of premiums that
you're collecting all of your
obligations or outflows put together the
industry is kind of losing roughly
anywhere between 12 to 13%. So obviously
in that sense when you look at it the
market has to get far more disciplined
in so far as the pricing environment is
concerned at an aggregate level. Now
let's break it into specific segments to
your point on what's happening on motor
what's happening on health. Uh let's
take motor first. Now while I gave the
industry combined ratios at an aggregate
level if you were to look at motor as a
category industry is actually kind of
slightly more worse off uh because as we
speak for the last year ended gone by
the industry actually reported a
combined ratio of 124.
uh so this is obviously is in that sense
uh uh quite significant in so far as
underwriting losses are concerned and in
the backdrop is where I think again the
industry has to kind of course correct
itself in so far as the pricing
environment is uh concerned so hence uh
as we speak the market continues to
remain aggressive and that's the reason
why we believe at that 124% levels of
combined it cannot be sustainable so
players have to kind of improve of uh
pricing uh in general and within that in
the current year specifically there is
also a regulatory stipulation for
companies which are exceeding the
expense of management threshold to come
within the limits that are laid down. So
hence there is also an expectation that
the pricing environment should get
better as we kind of headed to
particularly the second half of the year
largely to kind of meet uh compliance
with guidelines. And the last part that
I would say in the context of motor in
the with respect to the pricing regime
is I think clearly there is a equal seek
in so far as increase in price for third
motor third party. uh when that will get
happened very difficult to kind of
comment but honestly as an industry we
have sought a increase in pricing for
motor third party to your point on
health u I think uh as ICI Lombard I
think we have always kind of maintained
that uh on an annualized basis we are
okay to run the book at a loss ratio in
the range of 65 to 70% and if you'd have
seen for the year gone by uh that number
stood at roughly about 68% or thereabout
uh within quarters Obviously there will
be let's say reflection of loss ratios
which could be plus minus within that
range but at a company level from an ISO
standpoint I think the range that we are
comfortable operating at is between 65
to 70%. And there I think we're quite
comfortable in so far as price is
concerned particularly in the context of
ISIS.
>> Point taken sir. Sir, so when does
growth start to kick in given all of
this? What is your current viewpoint?
What's the pulse feeling like
quarter one gone by right? I think even
if you look at uh so there is obviously
this element of 1 byN if you recolct I
think we did speak about even in last
quarter uh this was a regulatory change
that had happened in October of 2024
uh which is likely to kind of subsist
for one more quarter as in for quarter 2
we did see the impact of it in Q1 as
well uh but leave leave that aside even
even even keeping that aside the
industry has kind of grown at roughly at
about 8.8%. uh which I would say is
reasonable in so far as uh given where
we are in terms of the overall scheme of
things. But if you again if you want to
break down in terms of categories most
of the segments have grown grown almost
at similar levels particularly when you
look at motor and health at an industry
level and commercial line if you recolct
uh last year did see uh stress in
pricing now that's come back uh which is
which is a good news and therefore the
expectation is pretty much similar I
think as what we have maintained I think
the second half of the year will be uh
will obviously be out of the one by
prescription. So hence to that extent
one should logically start seeing
normalized growth coming in.
>> If you look at the long-term averages I
would continue to say that general
insurance industry should continue to
exhibit growth in that range of 15 to
20% from a structurally long-term uh
perspective. In this year I think there
are both headwinds and tailwinds and
therefore to that extent it will be
reasonable to expect the industry to
grow in a high single digit to maybe
early double digit numbers.
Okay. High single early double. What
should we expect on the combine sir?
Because the combine doesn't or rather
there seems to be some amount of
difficulty in it coming off as pricing
likely improves. Can the combine improve
and by how much by end of this year?
Yeah, that's a that's that's always a
difficult question to answer, right? But
having said absolutely I don't envy you
sir but but
having said that again just look let's
look at how has kind of put out their
numbers for quarter one. uh again I
would just kind of give the numbers
because what gets reported on a
published basis may not be comparable
with the given numbers last year again
for the same prescription of the N and
the 1 byN uh related impact and I will
confine right now on a like to like
basis which is on an end to-end basis
for Q1 last year and Q1 current year Q1
last year on an end basis we reported a
combined of 102.3%.
If you'd have seen the numbers for IC
lumbar for Q1 this year which is for Q1
FI26 again on a like to like basis on an
end basis that number stands at 102.2.
So actually we have been able to make a
a moderate improvement in the overall
combined numbers. However what gets
published is more on a 1 by basis where
the number stands at about 102.9. So
directionally again as I said on a like
to like basis we have been able to make
an improvement in the in the combined
ratios and exactly to the point that you
originally asked as in uh in terms of uh
how the pricing environment is playing
out as the industry starts to kind of
respond well in terms of improved
pricing regime and also overall growth
getting stimulated logically we should
be able to kind of further see an
improvement in our combined by the end
of the year and that is exactly what IC
alumba has been exhibiting uh pretty
much every year since the last three
years in terms of improvement in combat.
s this this very strong investment
income you know that's largely led to
the profit beat and I and and I know
maybe you can't talk about the beat and
profitability but that is how the
analyst community views it right so can
that sustain where is that coming from
give us that color
yeah so again I think I'll put this in
context I think uh from an ISIS lumbard
standpoint I think the good news is uh I
think a large part of our business is
significantly granular in retail now
that ensures that uh as a company we are
able to have regular streams of cash
flows which kind of takes care of uh the
obligations that we may have on a
day-to-day basis and therefore from an
investment standpoint I think general
insurance is a business of float because
the beauty of the business is you get
money on day one and till the time the
various obligations doesn't get paid out
you are able to kind of uh make that uh
investments in the right calls
[Music]